5 Prerequisites
Availability
The odds of a particular server or service being up and running at any point in time, usually measured in percentages. A server that has 99% availability will be operational 99% of the time (this would be described as having two nines of availability).

High Availability
Used to describe systems that have particularly high levels of availability, typically 5 nines or more; sometimes abbreviated "HA".

Redundancy
The process of replicating parts of a system in an effort to make it more reliable.

Strong Consistency
Strong Consistency usually refers to the consistency of ACID transactions, as opposed to Eventual Consistency.

Eventual Consistency
A consistency model which is unlike Strong Consistency. In this model, reads might return a view of the system that is stale. An eventually consistent datastore will give guarantees that the state of the database will eventually reflect writes within a time period (could be 10 seconds, or minutes).


5 Key Terms
Leader Election
The process by which nodes in a cluster (for instance, servers in a set of servers) elect a so-called "leader" amongst them, responsible for the primary operations of the service that these nodes support. When correctly implemented, leader election guarantees that all nodes in the cluster know which one is the leader at any given time and can elect a new leader if the leader dies for whatever reason.

Consensus Algorithm
A type of complex algorithms used to have multiple entities agree on a single data value, like who the "leader" is amongst a group of machines. Two popular consensus algorithms are Paxos and Raft.

Paxos & Raft
Two consensus algorithms that, when implemented correctly, allow for the synchronization of certain operations, even in a distributed setting.

Etcd
Etcd is a strongly consistent and highly available key-value store that's often used to implement leader election in a system.

ZooKeeper
ZooKeeper is a strongly consistent, highly available key-value store. It's often used to store important configuration or to perform leader election.