3 Prerequisites
Polling
The act of fetching a resource or piece of data regularly at an interval to make sure your data is not too stale.

Streaming
In networking, it usually refers to the act of continuously getting a feed of information from a server by keeping an open connection between the two machines or processes.

Persistent Storage
Usually refers to disk, but in general it is any form of storage that persists if the process in charge of managing it dies.



4 Key Terms
Publish/Subscribe Pattern
Often shortened as Pub/Sub, the Publish/Subscribe pattern is a popular messaging model that consists of publishers and subscribers. Publishers publish messages to special topics (sometimes called channels) without caring about or even knowing who will read those messages, and subscribers subscribe to topics and read messages coming through those topics.

Pub/Sub systems often come with very powerful guarantees like at-least-once delivery, persistent storage, ordering of messages, and replayability of messages.

Idempotent Operation
An operation that has the same ultimate outcome regardless of how many times it's performed. If an operation can be performed multiple times without changing its overall effect, it's idempotent. Operations performed through a Pub/Sub messaging system typically have to be idempotent, since Pub/Sub systems tend to allow the same messages to be consumed multiple times.

For example, increasing an integer value in a database is not an idempotent operation, since repeating this operation will not have the same effect as if it had been performed only once. Conversely, setting a value to "COMPLETE" is an idempotent operation, since repeating this operation will always yield the same result: the value will be "COMPLETE".

Apache Kafka
A distributed messaging system created by LinkedIn. Very useful when using the streaming paradigm as opposed to polling.

Cloud Pub/Sub
A highly-scalable Pub/Sub messaging service created by Google. Guarantees at-least-once delivery of messages and supports "rewinding" in order to reprocess messages.
